Peer-Review of "Advancing European Railway Systems: A Transition to Unified Control with ERTMS, ETCS, and 5G

1. Summary:
This is the peer review of the seminar paper Advancing European Railway Systems: A Transition to Unified Control with ERTMS, ETCS, and 5G, which discusses the railway control system adopted by European railways and the prospect of 5G's practical usage in this domain. It also lists multiple implementations by country together with figures. It also covers the unified standards within the European Union and their evolution, such as the adoption of new mobile network standards. The last section of the paper shows the potential future of the combination and integration of 5G technology in European railway systems and the associated topics (improvement, feasibility, and security).

2. Strengths:
It proposed a very innovative and practical idea that combines computer network and telecom technologies with a real-world production scenario. It provides abundant real-world examples and clear figures.
It also gives a detailed, comprehensive overview of the current railway control system in Europe with comparisons (But I think it should be more focused on introducing 5G technology to these systems).
the written English and grammar of the paper is good (much better than mine).

2. Weaknesses:
As a seminar paper in aspect of Internet and security, it should be more focused on 5G (or generally speaking, the network and telecom technologies) itself. The author spends too much attention and length in the former non-digitalized railway control system, which is not the main focus of the paper.
The author should also provide more detailed information about the topic itself, i.e. deploying, migrating and integrating 5G technology in railway system.
The topic and idea is still potential and worth to be further explored, but the organization and content of the paper may need to be improved.

3. Questions to the author:
What are the main challenges and difficulties in adopting 5G technology in railway system?

In confront of these difficulties, what are the potential solutions and strategies?

In the phase of migrating new technologies, how can man guarantee that the old and new system can cooperate?

In the proposed model of 5G powered railway system in the surrounding area of hamburg, you mention a mechanism of arranging, scheduling and cooperating is needed, can you provide more details about that?

4. Correctness:
"designated as ATP-VR/RHK, which is derived from Alstom’s
EBICab 900 technology."  - needs citation and further explanation on the technology.

Minimal grammar corrections and please see the annotated version of the paper.

5. Feedback:
The paper proposes an innovative and practical idea, but is somewhat in further explanation and discussion around the topic. There are many topics is worth to be further discussed , that will make the content more informative and meaningful for publishing.

6. Reviewer Confidence:
I am not quite familiar with the topic, both telecom and railway system. But I can understand most parts of the paper, especially the railway system part, because it provides most comprehensive information.

7. Evaluation:
Conditionally accept. But it needs revision with further explanation on the topic.
